`ephemeral` block reference rewrite (#662)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform/v1.12.x/docs/language/block/ephemeral.mdx

---
page_title: Ephemeral block reference for the Terraform configuration language
description: Use the `ephemeral` block to define temporary resources that Terraform does not store in state or plan files.
---

# `ephemeral` block reference

Use the `ephemeral` block to define temporary resources that Terraform does not store in state or plan files.

## Background

The `ephemeral` block declares a temporary ephemeral resource that only exists during the current Terraform operation. Terraform does not store ephemeral resources in state or plan files, making them ideal for managing sensitive or temporary data that you do not want to persist, such as temporary passwords or connections to other systems.

To learn more about the `ephemeral` block and its unique lifecycle and provisioning order, refer to [Sensitive data in State](/terraform/language/state/sensitive-data).

## Refer to ephemeral resources

> You can only refer to ephemeral resources in specific ephemeral contexts in or Terraform throws an error. The following are valid contexts for referring to ephemeral resources:

Author: Same as below "will throw" isn't present tense, but keeping the rest!
```suggestion
You can only refer to ephemeral resources in specific ephemeral contexts in or Terraform throws an error when it plans your changes. The following are valid contexts for referring to ephemeral resources:
```

Refer to the ephemeral resource using `ephemeral.<TYPE>.<LABEL>` syntax.

### Provider-specific arguments

The provider developer determines which arguments you can define for an ephemeral resource. Refer to the provider documentation for details about available arguments and how to format their values.

#### Summary

- Data type: Various, depending on the provider
- Default: None, but requirements vary by provider
- Required: Varies by provider

### `count`

The `count` meta-argument instructs Terraform to provision multiple instances of the same ephemeral resource with identical or similar configuration.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```hcl
ephemeral "<TYPE>" "<LABEL>" {
  count = <number>
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

The value must be a whole number. You can reference variables or local values and use expressions to compute the value, but the value must resolve to a whole number.

In blocks where you set `count`, Terraform exposes an additional `count` object. You can reference the object to modify the configuration of each instance. The `count` object has an `index` attribute starting from `0`.

> To refer to an individual instance of an ephemeral resource created using the `count` meta-argument, use the `ephemeral.<TYPE>.<NAME>[INDEX]` syntax. For example, `ephemeral.random_password.db_password[0]` refers to the first instance of the `random_password` ephemeral resource named `db_password`.

Author: Oh such a good catch! Thank you so much!!

The `count` argument is a meta-argument, which is built into Terraform and controls the way that Terraform creates resources. Refer to [Meta-arguments](/terraform/language/meta-arguments/count) for more information.

#### Summary

- Data type: Number
- Default: None
- Example: [Create multiple ephemeral resources](#create-multiple-ephemeral-resources)

### `depends_on`

> The `depends_on` meta-argument specifies an upstream resource that the ephemeral resource depends on. Terraform must complete all operations on the upstream resource before performing operations on the ephemeral resource containing the `depends_on` argument.

Author: ```suggestion
The `depends_on` meta-argument specifies an upstream resource that the ephemeral resource depends on. When it creates a plan, Terraform sequences all operations on the upstream resource before performing operations on the ephemeral resource configured with the `depends_on` meta-argument.
```

```hcl
ephemeral "aws_secretsmanager_secret_version" "db_master" {
  secret_id = aws_secretsmanager_secret_version.db_password.secret_id
}

locals {
  credentials = jsondecode(ephemeral.aws_secretsmanager_secret_version.db_master.secret_string)
}

provider "postgresql" {
  host     = aws_db_instance.example.address
  port     = aws_db_instance.example.port
  username = local.credentials["username"]
  password = local.credentials["password"]
# …
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

An ephemeral resource handles the credentials so Terraform never stores them in state or plan files. If you reference an `ephemeral` resource in `locals` block that value in the `locals` block is also not stored in state or plan files because Terraform intuitively understands you do not want that value stored.

### Use ephemeral values with a write-only argument

Write-only arguments let you securely pass temporary values to managed resources during an operation without persisting those resource values to state or plan files. In the following example, the `random_password` ephemeral resource generates a temporary password and passes it to the `password_wo` write-only argument:

> <CodeBlockConfig highlight="4,16">

Author: I'm going to leave the `#...` because we reference resources that aren't shown in this example (`aws_db_subnet_group.example.name`)...but let me make sure I'm consistent about that!

resource "aws_db_instance" "example" {
  instance_class      = "db.t3.micro"
  allocated_storage   = "5"
  engine              = "postgres"
  username            = "example"
  skip_final_snapshot = true
  publicly_accessible  = true
  db_subnet_group_name = aws_db_subnet_group.example.name
  password_wo         = ephemeral.random_password.db_password.result
  password_wo_version = 1
}

```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Neither write-only arguments nor `ephemeral` resources are persisted outside of the current Terraform run, ensuring that the `ephemeral.random_password.db_password.result` value is completely omitted from state and plan files.

Terraform does not store the generated value of `ephemeral.random_password.db_password.result`, but you can capture it in another resource to ensure the value is not lost. For an example of generating, storing, retrieving, and using an ephemeral password, refer to [write-only arguments](/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral/write-only#set-and-store-an-ephemeral-password-in-aws-secrets-manager).

### Create multiple ephemeral resources

In the following example, the `for_each` argument creates multiple passwords for different database environments:

> <CodeBlockConfig highlight="6,18">

Author: I'll talk about it in the prose, but to keep this focused on the `ephemeral` block I'm going to leave the highlighting as is.
